# GraphQL

Concepts (for wiki / intro):

Queries:

- Client sends GraphQL to server, asking for objects.
- Server sends back JSON that matches the structure in the query.

Basic query: query { someRootQuery { field1 field2 field3 } }

- query
    - keyword - not required, but it makes it more understandable
- someRootQuery
    - Note that this is NOT JSON!
    - This is always the name of a root ‘query' object defined in the schema (by the server)
- field1 field2 field3
    - Again, NOT JSON.
    - Must be fields defined on the type in the schema.
- GraphQL query syntax
    - Clients interact with a graphql server by sending queries in GraphQL syntax.
    - The server parses the graphQL query string, executes the query, and returns the JSON that the query string specifies.
    - GraphQL is NOT JSON. It looks a little like JSON, but it isn’t.
    - A graphQL query will start with a root object, define any relevant arguments, and specify the objects and fields to be returned.
- Schema - A collection of types (class, or struct-like) with a few special types:
    - The root type, which contains query and mutation fields.These are the root queries, and root mutations.
    - The Query type, which contains all the root queries (as fields)
    - The Mutation type, which contains all the root mutations as fields.
    - Other types, which are basically domain model entities.
- Type - A type is class-like object
    - Contains fields, which can be primitive types, or other Types in the schema
    - Fields can be array types, this is how collections are expressed.
- Arguments
    - Fields can have arguments, which are used as query parameters.

Schema defined in IDL: .graphqls

- Use SchemaParser().parse(streamReader) to load the schema into a TypeDefinitionRegistry
- Use RuntimeWiring.newRuntimeWiring() to build the ‘wiring’ object. Bind the DataFecthers to types.
- Make the executable schema by combining the TypeDefinitionRegistry and RuntimeWiring withschema = new SchemaGenerator().makeExecutableSchema(typeRegistry, wiring);
- Make the GraphQL engine for the schema: GraphQL.newGraphQL(schema).build()

IDEA Plugin JS Graphql

[https://github.com/graphql-java/graphql-java-tools#mavengradle](https://github.com/graphql-java/graphql-java-tools#mavengradle)

Apollo Client - NodeJS